This file contatins the description of the parallel implementations of Ksolve::process, Gsolve::process, Dsolve::process .

Ksolve : 
   Kinetic solver implements a linear algebra solution for fast computation of the chemical reactions. 
   The process function performs the calculations using the rungekutta method or order 5 on the various voxelpools involved at this timestep of the simulation.
   This step is parallelized by distributing the voxels among the available threads.

Gsolve : 
   Stochastic solver solves the chemical reactions on a per molecule basis instead of using linear algebra solutions like the Kinetic solver.
   The parallelization was done by dividing the molecules among the available threads.

Dsolve : 
   Calculates the diffusion gradient for every molecule. The parallelization technique is similar to Gsolve, where we distribute the molecules between the execution threads.


Programming Models Used :
   OpenMP - for the ease of use.
   Pthreads - for the flexibility.

   To avail a particular parallelization of a particular programming model we set the flag in the .h files of the respective solvers.
   The environment variable NUM_THREADS, represents the number of threads with which the solvers can be run. It needs to have a value for proper execution. 

Performance improvement due to parallelization :
   Kmeans - 4.5X
   Gsolve - 5.8X
   Dsolve - 3.8X

Performances improve with increasing problem sizes. 

OpenMP vs Pthreads :
   Compared to Pthreads based parallelization, OpenMP based parallelization gave better performance.
   The reason for this is the optimization that is performed by the OpenMP framework. 
   Once the OpenMP framework creates a parallel thread (at the first encounter of a "OpenMP parallel" directive), the threads are kept alive until the end of the program/application. 
   However, with pthreads, the basic parallelization technique is to create the threads whenever a parallel section is encountered and to kill the threads once the work is done.  
   This creates a heavy burden in cases where the overhead of thread creation-destruction is high. 
   Hence, the pthread implementation was modified such that it creates threads once at the start of the application and killed at the end of the it. 
   The threads are however allowed to work only when the main-thread has reached a point where parallel work is possible. 
   For the rest of the time, the worker-threads are kept idle. This behaviour is achieved by the use of semaphores. 
   Each worker-main thread pair is controlled using a pair of semaphores, using which messages are passed in between them. 
   This optimization improved the performance of pthread-based implementation and we achived the speedups equivalent to the ones with OpenMP. 

